# Rich in Faith
# 信心的富足

**Date / 日期:** 2026-Jan-28

**Scripture References / 经文引用:** 雅各书 2:1-17, 以弗所书 4:28, 马太福音 5:3, 马太福音 6:25-34, 路加福音 8:22-25, 马太福音 18:21-35

---

## Sermon Outline / 讲道大纲

1. Introduction: The Ten Commandments as a framework for greatness
   介绍：十诫作为伟大生活的框架

2. The Eighth Commandment: Radical Generosity
   第八诫：激进的慷慨

3. The Christian Understanding of Wealth
   基督教对财富的理解

4. Real Faith is Radically Generous
   真正的信心是激进的慷慨

5. Real Faith is Radically Gracious
   真正的信心是激进的恩典

6. Real Faith is Radically Practical
   真正的信心是激进的实用

---

## Full Transcript / 完整文本

### English

Welcome to Gospel in Life. During January, we are inviting our listeners to consider becoming a Gospel in Life monthly partner. If you'd like to learn more, keep listening at the end of today's podcast for details. Have you ever wondered what it really means to live a great life? The Bible says the Ten Commandments aren't confining rules, but a framework for building a life of true greatness. Today, Tim Keller takes an in-depth look at one of the Ten Commandments and helps us understand what it means to live the way God designed us to, free, whole, and rooted in His love. Glorious Lord Jesus Christ, don't show favoritism. Suppose a man comes into your meeting wearing a gold ring and fine clothes, and a poor man in shabby clothes also comes in. If you show special attention to the man wearing fine clothes and say, here's a good seat for you, but say to the poor man, you stand there, or sit on the floor by my feet, have you not discriminated among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my dear brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom He promised to those who love Him? But you have insulted the poor. Is it not the rich who are exploiting you? Are they not the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who slander the noble name of Him to whom you belong? If you really keep the royal law found in Scripture, love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing right. But if you show favoritism, you sin and are convicted by the law as lawbreakers. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. For he who said, do not commit adultery, also said, do not murder. If you commit adultery but do not commit murder, you have become a lawbreaker. Hear this, speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom, because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment. What good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such a faith save him? Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food. If one of you says to him, go, I wish you well, keep warm and well fed, but does nothing about his physical needs, what good is it? In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. This is God's Word. 2. Last week and this week, we're looking at the 8th commandment. We've been moving through the 10 commandments and the 8th commandment is, thou shalt not steal. And last week, we mentioned, to me, one of the most intriguing verses, Psalm 4, pardon me, not Psalm, Ephesians 4, verse 28. I'm sure Psalm 4 is intriguing too, but Ephesians 4, 28, that says, let the thief no longer steal but let him give to those with a need. Let the thief no longer steal but let him give to those with need. That is putting it in its most startling way. A thief hasn't stopped being a thief until he's generous. Unless, another way to put it, to obey the 8th commandment, it's not enough simply to not steal. To obey the 8th commandment, you must be radically generous. You have to be radically generous or you're a thief. That's what the Bible says. Radical generosity is more than just the willingness to shell out the money. Radical generosity is an attitude of life. It's an attitude toward your possessions. It's an attitude, really, toward yourself. It's a willingness to lend your possessions. It's a willingness to not be so possessive of your possessions. To not be so protective of your space, of your things, of your time, of your money. It's an attitude toward your space and yourself. It's letting people in. It's being unusually sensitive to see needs and meet them. I remember, I will remember, a Bible study, after a Bible study one morning, the woman in whose home the Bible study was meeting approached the Bible study leader, almost with tears in her eyes. And she said, you can't have this Bible study here anymore. My furniture is getting all nicked up and the coffee cake crumbs are being ground into my rug. And the Bible study leader looked at her and said, my dear friend, someday the earth is going to burn up in the sun. The sun is going to go out, the earth will burn up. All the rugs will be burned up. The people, the people in this room and the Word of God will last forever. Do you want to put your money into something that will burn up or into something that will last forever? Well, he was rude, but right. I don't think he should have said that. He said, I'm a pastor and I'm a preacher. As a pastor, I think he was being pretty insensitive, but as a preacher, he was right on. If you're not radically generous, you're a thief. Now, what's the rationale? And I'll recap that one too. The rationale for that remarkable statement is the Christian understanding of wealth. And let me kind of quickly go down this again from last week, and many of you wouldn't have been here and we can all review it. Capitalism says, by itself, capitalism says that your money is your own and you can do with it what you want. Communism or socialism says, and of course I'm oversimplifying, your money, the money that you earn is the people's and you must do with it as the community needs. And a Christian says, the money you earn is God's and you must do with it as he directs. And those are three very different systems. And capitalism's always had a problem, the problem of social injustice. How do you really lay a powerful enough motivation on people that they'll be generous? And communism has a similar problem, only it's a motivation problem. Communism has the problem of taking away ownership from people and then they lack motivation for production. And they also, I think, as we can see in these last few days and weeks, they lack the human dignity that comes with ownership. Needing, human beings need to have a part of the world that is theirs to take care of. But Christianity says, the wealth that you have, you enjoy and it's yours to take care of as a trustee, but you must give it generously as your owner directs, that's God, and he directs that you give it to the work of the gospel, to the poor and to Christians with needs. And as a result, you see, you can say, if that money was yours and you're not generous with it, you're being stingy. But if that money is somebody else's and you're not generous with it, as the owner directs, it's robbery, it's embezzlement. And that's what we can say, a thief is no longer a thief when he's generous. That's when he stops being a thief, when he's radically generous. Now, why spend another week on it? Because you know, the Bible is so full of this teaching, it's very, very, very difficult. A number of people said, why don't you get back and preach on sex again, and I will. And yet, frankly, the Bible doesn't say as much about sex as it does about money. In fact, the entire gospel of Luke is almost about money. And the thing we're going to talk about today is a very important principle that we see here and it's throughout scripture, and that is, your attitude toward your wealth and your possessions is not an incidental or a peripheral or an optional issue. It's at the very essence of what faith is, and it's at the heart of what it is to be a Christian. It's not like, well, I can be a Christian and then what I do with my wealth and possessions is something I'll get to someday. This passage tells us, and the Bible tells us, that your attitude toward wealth and possessions is of the essence of faith, it's at the heart of being a Christian. Recently I was talking to somebody, a friend of mine from England, called me and he said, pray for me. He called me a week ago. He says, I'm going to Romania. I said, why? He says, well, we here in England have many contacts with the Christians in Romania, and of course, Romania has been a closed country and the Christians have been persecuted, and now that the doors are open, we're going to visit our friends. We're going to take the Romanian Bibles because the border's open. But pray for us. We want to encourage them, but especially pray for this, and this is what he told me. Of all of the Eastern Bloc countries, the church is the most vital in the places where it has been the most persecuted. And Romania has the most vital of all the Eastern Bloc churches because it's been the most persecuted. Pray that now that there's freedom there, it won't just go down the drain spiritually. And you know, you can be glib and you can make a great mistake and be oversimplified and say, well, isn't that amazing? We hear that the church in China, when the missionaries were kicked out, when the communists took over and they began persecuting the church, that was the very thing the Chinese church needed. And the Chinese church has flourished. And you can be glib and say, that's the difference between them and us. That's why they have so much vitality, because of persecution. And that's a mistake, it's a superficial analysis. The difference is materialism. It's the persecution, yes, but the persecution has set it so that the difference between them and us is materialism. Those churches have got no buildings, those churches have got few possessions, they share what they have, and they're like the early church. The early church amazed the Romans, remember, because of two things in which they stood out from the culture. Number one, their sexual purity, and number two, their financial promiscuity. They were sexually pure, but they were promiscuous with their money. They gave it all over the place. And the world was amazed. In fact, a few months ago I read this, but most of you weren't here at the time. You know, one of the early Roman emperors, a man named Julian, desperately tried to stamp out Christians. And he lived in the third century AD, and the Christians kept multiplying and multiplying and multiplying, and they were taking over everything. And at one point, Julian wrote this very, very disgusted letter to one of his pagan priest friends. And in it he says, I don't know what to do, the Christians are multiplying. And you know why they're multiplying, he says? And this is what he said. Rome has contributed to the progress of the superstition of these Christians as their charity to strangers. The impious Galileans provide not only for their own poor, but for ours as well. Isn't that amazing? Here was a Roman emperor trying to figure out what is the reason that Christianity is spreading like wildfire? What gives it its dynamic? And of course, Julian wasn't a Christian, he couldn't understand everything, but he saw what the rest of the Roman world saw. And what gave it its attractive power, and what was that? Radical generosity. These, you know, the Jews took care of the Jewish poor, and the Greeks took care of the Greek poor, and the Romans took care of the Roman poor, but these Christians are promiscuous about this stuff. I mean, they just, they goop their generosity all over everybody, it's unheard of. And not only that, it's unbelievably attractive. Now, why do you think, in many ways, the church spreads in persecuted places? Largely because of the way Christians are radically generous with one another, and with the people around them. They stand out. How do we do? How do we do? Do we stand out? Is the world marveling? Look, this particular passage we read, it's a long passage, very involved, and I just want to point out three important things that this passage teaches along the lines of what we've already been saying. This passage says, the way you can tell real faith, the way you can tell true saving faith, is that it inevitably leads to radical generosity. In fact, this passage says, real faith, not nominal faith, not just a claim or profession of Christianity, not just an emotional experience of Christianity, but real faith has three characteristics. It's radically generous, it's radically gracious, and it's radically practical. Those three things. Now, let's just take a look at them. Most of you usually get those three things written down on your sheet in the bullet, and they're not there. You'll have to listen. Radically generous, radically gracious, and radically practical. Very quickly, number one, radically generous. I'm looking at these verses. He can act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom, because judgment without mercy will be shown to those who did not have mercy. But mercy triumphs over judgment. And then it goes on in verse 14, and says, what good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can that faith save him? How do you know the difference between saving faith and just emotional or lip service? The answer is radical generosity. And it says, on judgment day, the way we can tell people who have got real faith is by their mercy. There will be judgment without mercy for those who have shown no mercy. Now the word mercy is interesting here. In the New Testament, mercy can have a broader and a more specific meaning. It can have a broader meaning and a specialized meaning. In the broad sense, mercy is just the way we use it. It means seeing someone and just loving them and giving them help. Loving them, that's mercy. But the specific meaning in the Bible is to help somebody with their economic, physical, practical needs. For example, in Matthew 18, there's a story about a king who has a servant who owes him 10,000 talents, and he forgives him the debt. He wipes out his economic debt, and at the end, he's very angry at the servant. We won't go into the parable now, but he says to the servant, shouldn't you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? The economic help was mercy. When the blind men, you know, when Jesus was going by, the blind men would call out, son of man, have mercy on me. What was he doing? Was he just asking for forgiveness of sins? No. He was using the word mercy in the specific way. I've got a physical problem. I've got a practical problem. I'm blind. Do something about my body. Do something about my physical suffering. And the most important place is in the parable of the Good Samaritan. You remember it. The Samaritan finds a man lying in the road, he picks him up, he gives him transportation, he gives him medical care, he gives him a financial subsidy, he stays up all night and tends to his wounds. Practical work, huh? Social work. And at the very end, Jesus says, that's the one who had mercy. And the word mercy has that specific meaning often in the Bible of economic, physical help. Now, in the context, what does the word mercy mean in verse 12, 13? What does it mean? It's very clear. At the end of chapter 1 of James, James says, true religion, religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is this, to look after orphans and widows in their affliction. And then in chapter 2, we read in verse 6, it says, let's honor the poor man. And down in verse 15, which we read, it says, if you have faith without deeds, what good is that? And then gives an example of the mercy we're talking about. If you see someone without basic necessities, and you don't deal with their need, if you don't feed them if they're hungry, what good is that? It's very clear. Mercy will be without judgment. Pardon me, judgment would be without mercy for those who have shown no mercy, but mercy triumphs over judgment. And that simply says that on judgment day, your mercy will show whether or not your faith is real. And if there's mercy, having come out of that faith, that shows that your faith is real and you will not be judged. But if there's been no mercy, then that shows your faith is not real and you will be. And this does not teach that God saves us because of our generosity. It teaches that if we believe and are saved because of our faith in Jesus, grace and mercy, then there will be grace and mercy growing up out of any real faith like that. In fact, James here, listen, James tells us a lot about faith. Some people are very concerned. They find faith a very mysterious thing. This book, this chapter can tell you a great deal about faith. Let me give you a couple of pointers. Paul says we walk by faith, not by sight. Paul never says we walk by faith, not by reason. Paul never says we walk by faith, not by thinking, because faith and reason, faith and thinking are not opposed to each other. Faith and sight are opposed to each other because faith is being controlled by the truth. We all chase things like success, true love, or the perfect life, good things that can easily become ultimate things. When we put our faith in them, deep down, we know they can't satisfy our deepest longings. The truth is that we've made lesser gods of good things, things that can't give us what we really need. In his book, Counterfeit Gods, The Empty Promises of Money, Sex and Power and the Only Hope That Matters, Tim Keller shows us how a proper understanding of the Bible reveals the truth about societal ideals and our own hearts and shows us that there is only one God who can wholly satisfy our desires. This month, we'll send you Counterfeit Gods as our thank you for your gift to help Gospel & Life share the love of Christ with people all over the world. You can request your copy at gospelandlife.com slash give. That's gospelandlife.com slash give. Now here's Dr. Keller with the rest of today's teaching. Let me give you a couple of illustrations. Let me think of a couple of illustrations. No, here's one. You know, first things first. You have to have surgery. That's a scary thing. So you start to ask around who's a good surgeon and someone says to you, you know, I know a woman who is a marvelous surgeon who does that kind of surgery. And so you begin to investigate the surgeon and you talk to other people who she has operated on. And you, let's just say for the sake of our illustration, you're able to talk to other surgeons and find out what they think. And you're even able to somehow find medical records to find out how this woman has done. And you find out, everybody says the best. She's the best. She's never lost a patient. She's never had an unsuccessful surgery. The evidence is overwhelming. You say, fantastic. So you sign up and on the day of surgery, you chicken out. You start to get there and you start, you smell the antiseptic. You go into the hospital and maybe you see a few surgical tools lying around. You see some bloody little, you know, gloves lying around and you panic and you say, I can't do it. What's happened? You've lost your faith in her. Why? Because you got new information? Because you were reasoned out of it? No. Because you're going by sight. You're being controlled by what you see. You're being controlled by appearances. You're being controlled by feelings instead of what you know to be true. Are you going to walk by faith or by sight? Are you going to go in there and do it? Because you got to say to yourself, look, I need it. This is the best person. Are you going to walk by faith or by sight? I'll give you another illustration. Single women can identify with this, but all of us can understand it. Some great looking guy asks you out. That's wonderful. You're pretty excited. But one of your friends says, now listen, let me just tell you something. He's a nice guy, a wonderful guy, but be careful. If you tell him anything very intimate or secret, he is a blabbermouth. It will be all over. Even a big city. It will be all over. Everybody will know about it. He always likes to talk about personal things, and you feel real intimate, but then he tells people so be careful. He's a great guy. You have a good time. Be careful. So this one friend tells you. Then another friend tells you the same thing. Then a third friend tells you the same thing, and you begin to say, you know what? There must be something to this. I better really be careful. And then you go out. Boy, he is good looking. Boy, it is a nice place. Boy, the food was really great. And he starts to ask you more, well, tell me more about yourself. Now, are you going to walk by faith or by sight? You're starting to lose your faith in what you know to be true, because all those warnings start to begin to fade, you know, because you don't have those people right alongside of you. You're not hearing their voices in your ear. You see his face, and you know, you're there. Are you going to walk by faith or are you going to walk by sight? When you lose your faith, it doesn't mean you stop, yeah, it doesn't mean you started to think. You lose your faith when you stop thinking. I can go on. Another great illustration is you need a, this will be real short, you need a detective. And somebody says there's the best detective, he never fails, he always gets. So you call the guy up, and he comes over to see you, and it's Columbo. And you know, he's blind in one eye, and he dresses like a slob. As he comes up to see you, you know, he backs his car into the telephone pole, and he comes out and he says, I'm so sorry, you see. And then he comes up and he says, what can I do for you? And you sit there. Are you going to walk by faith or by sight? In fact, you know, the whole Columbo series is based on people who walk by sight instead of faith. They may hear that this is a New York, this is a homicide detective, a good one, but he acts like such a buffoon, you see, that what always happens, the whole idea of the Columbo series is that the criminals start to say, come on, look at this guy, look at his appearance, see? What I see tells me that this guy is incompetent. Now, my dear friends, when Jesus talks about faith, he always says faith is not the opposite of thinking. Doubt is the absence of thinking. He says, for example, and he's talking about possessions in Matthew 6. He says in Matthew 6, don't worry about what you will eat or what you will drink or your body or what you'll put on. He says, don't worry about those things. Consider the lilies of the field. God takes care of them. Consider the birds of the air. God takes care of them. Won't he take care of you, O ye of little faith? The pagans run after these things, material possessions, but not you, O ye of little faith. Do you see what he's saying? If you want to have faith, you have to consider, that means to think, consider the lilies of the field, consider the birds of the air, argue with yourself, think. The cults have a different view of faith. The cults say, believe, don't think. They say, have faith, don't think, don't ask questions. Don't sit down and wonder about these things. That's the exact opposite of what Jesus says faith is. He says, if you want to have faith, you have to think. Doubt is the absence of thinking. Jesus in Luke chapter 8, Jesus is asleep in the storm and the disciples are seeing the storm and they're seeing the waves and they're saying, oh my word, we're going to perish. And Jesus Christ wakes up and he looks at them and he says, where is your faith? He doesn't say you need more faith. He says, where is your faith? Get it out. It ought to be here. You saw me raise people from the dead. You saw me promise to you that I was going to take you this place and this place and this place. You saw these things. You knew what I can do. You knew who I was. And yet when I was just out of sight, you were looking at the waves, you were looking at the waves. And so you were scared. He doesn't say you need more faith. He doesn't act like faith is this mysterious thing that has to be wumped up. Some people have and some don't. He says, you know what you should have been doing. Where is your faith? Get it out. And Jesus specifically, specifically applies this to possessions. He says, if you worry about possessions, if you're consumed about money and about what you eat and what you drink, you show that you don't really know you're not being controlled by the, by what the Bible says about God, the father, God, the father owns everything. God, the father will take care of you. He closed the grass of the field. He takes care of the birds of the air. What James is saying here, what Jesus is saying in Matthew is simply this, an enslavement to visible things calls into question our faith in invisible things. Enslavement to visible things calls into, radically calls into question our real faith in invisible things. If you know that there's a God who's taking care of you, who owns everything, that changes you totally in your attitude toward other things. You look at things and you say, wait a minute, look, if you have an opportunity to bless somebody by giving a lot of time or giving a lot of money right away, you say, I can't afford it. And at that minute you have to decide, will I walk by faith or by sight? Will I be controlled by what I know to be true, that there's a God who's created me, that owns everything, that can give me everything I need, or will I be controlled by the ads in the paper that tell me what standard of living I should be at? Are you looking at the ways or are you looking at Jesus? Are you walking by faith or by sight? Don't you see that the essence of faith is to be controlled by who God is and that will show itself up in your attitude toward your money and toward your possessions and toward things. Real faith is radically generous. That's the main thing that the Bible, this passage teaches. The other two things I can be briefer about, number one. Number two, real faith is radically gracious, gracious. You know up here where it says, my dear brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom? Now that's an interesting verse. On the one hand, I believe that is pointing out something that's been true throughout history, and that is that as a general rule in the history of the world, Christian movements have most often, radically great, tremendous, dynamic Christian movements have most often started with the poor. It's true. Most of the early Christians were poor. Most of the great revivals happened among the poor, and you know why? Because I believe that poor people very often can see the game. When you're playing these social games and you're winning, you don't see that it's a game, and you don't like anybody calling it a game. It's when you're losing, you like to call it a game. You know how that is. Those of you who in high school were on the out of the social life, it was easy because you were losing to say, what a game they're all playing. If you were winning, you didn't think it was a game. All human beings are poor because they're dependent. A poor person, economically, is a dependent person. When a person's got enough money, we call them what? Independently wealthy. If you have enough money, you're independent. You don't need anybody giving you money. You don't need even to go out and get a job. You're independently wealthy, and that's why economic poverty is a matter of dependence. But really, every person in relationship to God, no matter how much money you have in the bank, is spiritually poor. You're a dependent every minute for every breath on God, and sometimes only the really economically poor can see that. But what the Bible teaches is that anybody, anybody who wants to be, belong to God. Anybody, anybody who's going to be saved, anyone who has real faith, is poor in spirit. Matthew 5.3, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Without poverty of spirit, you cannot enter the kingdom of heaven. Do you hear that? You can't. Poverty of spirit, what's it mean? Well, to be poor in wallet means I'm bankrupt, I have nothing with which I can make good my debt. To be poor in spirit is to come to God and say, I have nothing good to give you. Even my best deeds aren't good enough. I owe you everything. Save me for Jesus' sake. And if you're poor in spirit, you will be rich in faith. To be poor in spirit means to go like this, I see that I'm saved strictly by God's mercy and riches. And then when you look at a person who's broken, when you look at a person who's ruined, when you look at a person who's messed up, you know you're looking in a mirror. No matter how ugly it is, you know you're looking in a mirror because a person who's poor in spirit says, no matter how good I look physically, no matter how much money I've got in my wallet, I know that that's what I look like to God apart from Jesus Christ. And so it makes you radically gracious, gracious to the messed up people around you. Let me put it like this. Let me just show you how it changes you. Sometimes married people do a very dangerous thing. Married people often will say to each other, do you love me? The other person says, of course I love you, which is what you have to say. Of course I love you. But then the first person might say something very, very dangerous. They say this, why do you love me? Now when that happens, you know, everything is on the precipice. And there's a one way to go. And the one way to go is this. Well, the reason I love you is because you serve me. Because you're a really great person. You never blow up. You never lose your temper. You never seem to get upset. You never get down. And will that make the other person feel great? The other person is saying, oh my word, you know, what pressure, how awful. You know, I begin to feel bound by this kind of love. What you want to hear is this. I love you because I love you. Nothing can get behind my love. There's no other cause for my love except itself. My love is its own rationale. And then you're liberated. That's the kind of love every person needs to know. That's the kind of love God gives you. God comes to you and says, I'm giving you my mercy and love, not because you're good, because I love you. That liberates. And the reason it liberates is because you're able to say this. You're able to talk like this. You feel rich when you realize you're saved, not on the basis of your good deeds, but simply because of his mercy. You talk like this. You say, the stars may fall from the heaven, but his love for me will stand. And it will triumph. I've got pride. I got problems. It will triumph. I am not loved because I'm good. I will be good because I'm loved. My pride, my bad habits, my sins will all fall before his triumphant love. Because he loves me. Because he loves me. Because he loves me. And anybody who's grabbed that becomes gracious to people around. Absolutely gracious. Absolutely. Last thing. Real faith is radically practical. And this is the way I can encourage you. Right here at the end it says, in verses 15 and 16, it says, if you see someone without daily food and clothes, and you say, go, I wish you well, if you only talk and you don't do anything, what good is that? It says, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. The last thing I can tell you is this. Some of you are sitting here and saying, well, I hear what I'm supposed to be feeling. You say, I should be feeling generous because of God's grace. I should be feeling confident because I trust in the one who owns everything. I should be feeling like that, but I don't. You can be honest with me. I don't feel like that. I've got a lot of inner turmoil, but I don't feel that generous. It's not easy for me to let people into my space. I realize what James is saying, but I don't feel like that. That's okay. Why? Because real love, real Christian love, is never sentiment anyway, it's action. With all due respect, do you think when Jesus was on the cross, giving himself in the greatest act of love in history, do you think he was full of warm, toasty feelings toward us? With all due respect, do you think he was saying, oh, I feel such wonderful, warm feelings toward these people who are putting nails and thorns and spears into me? Do you think there was anything like a warm, toasty feeling in his heart? No. But he loved us. He gave. And if anyone is here saying, you know, I see how I'm supposed to feel, but I don't, I see what James is saying is true, I wish it was that way, I wish, and you're discouraged, don't be afraid. Your discouragement is a sign that God's working in you. Your desire to be like that is a sign that God's working in you. Your discouragement is evidence that you shouldn't be discouraged. Because it's the beginning of grace. It's the beginning of grace. So what should you be doing? Don't worry that you somehow have to have all this incredible amount of faith and love. Just take a look around you. How much should you be giving? You know, last week we talked about the tithe. Don't let that bother you for a minute. How much should you be giving? More. Almost every one of you. More. Just start with that. Don't worry about how much it should be. Just start with more. And begin to realize ways in which you're selfish, ways in which you're looking at the ads and walking by sight and not by faith. Begin to look around for the needs. There's plenty of opportunities. The last thing I'll say, if there's anybody here who has never really gotten a grip on being poor in spirit, you can't enter the kingdom of heaven. Before you can be rich toward other people, before you can be rich toward other people, you've got to be poor toward God. And that means this morning, we're going to pray here, that means this morning you may need to say to God something like this, Lord, I now say I've always been poor, but I've never been poor in spirit till now. I've never come to the place where I can say to you, Lord, I have nothing to make good my debt. And so I ask that you save me strictly because of the riches which are mine through Jesus Christ, because of what he did. When you're poor in spirit, you then can begin to be rich in faith. It's not so you're poor in spirit can you begin to say, he loves me because he loves me and begin to feel rich and to say the stars may fall from heaven. My, my love, the love that I have from God will stand. Nothing can take it away. Don't you know that he's chosen those who are poor to be rich in faith? Let's pray. Thanks for listening to Tim Keller on the Gospel Online Podcast. If you'd like to see more people encouraged by the Gospel Center teaching and resources of this ministry, we invite you to consider becoming a Gospel and Life Monthly Partner. Your monthly partnership helps us to plan and steward our resources throughout the year to be the most effective in reaching people all over the world with the life giving power of Christ's love. And as a small thank you for your monthly support, we will mail you a physical copy of each new Life in the Gospel quarterly journal that you can enjoy and share with others. To learn more, just visit gospelandlife.com slash partner. That website again is gospelandlife.com slash partner. Today's sermon was recorded in 1990. The sermons and talks you hear on the Gospel and Life Podcast were recorded between 1989 and 2017 while Dr. Keller was Senior Pastor at Redeemer Presbyterian Church. You can also visit us at www.gospelandlife.com. Thank you for listening. We'll see you next time. 

---

### 中文翻译

欢迎来到生命中的福音。在一月份，我们邀请听众考虑成为生命中的福音月度合作伙伴。如果您想了解更多信息，请在今天的播客结束时继续收听。您是否曾想过真正伟大生活的意义是什么？圣经说，十诫不是限制性的规则，而是建立真正伟大生活的框架。今天，蒂姆·凯勒深入探讨了十诫之一，帮助我们理解按照上帝的设计生活意味着什么，自由、完整，并扎根于祂的爱中。荣耀的主耶稣基督，不要偏心。假设一个人戴着金戒指，穿着华丽的衣服来到你们的聚会，还有一个穿着破旧衣服的穷人也来了。如果你特别关注穿着华丽衣服的人，说，这里有个好座位给你，但对穷人说，你站在那里，或者坐在我脚边的地板上，难道你们不是在自己中间歧视并成为心怀恶意的法官吗？听着，我亲爱的弟兄们，上帝不是选择了那些在世人眼中贫穷的人，使他们在信心上富足，并继承祂应许给那些爱祂之人的国度吗？但你们却侮辱了穷人。难道不是富人正在剥削你们吗？他们不是把你们拖进法庭吗？他们不是诽谤你们所属之名的贵族吗？如果你们真正遵守经上的王法，爱邻如己，你们就做得对。但如果你们偏心，你们就犯罪，并被律法定罪为违法者。因为无论谁遵守全部律法，却在一点上跌倒，就等于犯了全部的罪。因为那说不可奸淫的，也说不可杀人。如果你犯奸淫却不杀人，你就成为违法者。听着，要像那些将要被给予自由的律法审判的人一样说话和行动，因为对没有怜悯的人将会有无怜悯的审判。怜悯胜过审判。我的弟兄们，如果一个人声称有信心却没有行为，那有什么好处呢？这样的信心能救他吗？假设一个弟兄或姐妹没有衣服和日常食物。如果你们中有人对他说，去吧，我祝你安好，保暖吃饱，却不解决他的实际需要，那有什么好处呢？同样，信心本身如果没有行动伴随，就是死的。这是上帝的话语。上周和这周，我们在看第八诫。我们一直在研究十诫，第八诫是，不可偷盗。上周我们提到，对我来说，最有趣的经文之一，诗篇4，不对不起，不是诗篇，是以弗所书4章28节。我相信诗篇4也很有趣，但以弗所书4章28节说，让小偷不再偷窃，而是让他给予有需要的人。让小偷不再偷窃，而是让他给予有需要的人。这是以最惊人的方式表达的。小偷还没有停止成为小偷，直到他变得慷慨。换句话说，要遵守第八诫，仅仅不偷是不够的。要遵守第八诫，你必须是激进的慷慨。你必须是激进的慷慨，否则你就是小偷。这是圣经所说的。激进的慷慨不仅仅是愿意掏钱。激进的慷慨是一种生活态度。这是一种对待你财产的态度。这实际上是一种对待你自己的态度。这是一种愿意借出你的财产的态度。这是一种不那么占有你的财产的态度。不那么保护你的空间、你的东西、你的时间、你的金钱。这是一种对待你的空间和自己的态度。这是让人们进入。这是对看到需求并满足它们的异常敏感。我记得，我会记得，一次圣经学习后的一次圣经学习，那位在家中举行圣经学习的女士几乎泪流满面地走向圣经学习的领袖。她说，你不能再在这里举行圣经学习了。我的家具都被刮花了，咖啡蛋糕的碎屑被磨进了我的地毯里。圣经学习的领袖看着她说，我亲爱的朋友，总有一天地球会在太阳中燃烧。太阳会熄灭，地球会燃烧。所有的地毯都会被烧毁。房间里的人和上帝的话语将永存。你想把你的钱投入到会被烧毁的东西上，还是投入到会永存的东西上？嗯，他很粗鲁，但他说得对。我不认为他应该那样说。他说，我是牧师，我是传道人。作为牧师，我认为他很不敏感，但作为传道人，他是对的。如果你不是激进的慷慨，你就是小偷。现在，是什么理由？我也会回顾一下那个。那个非凡声明的理由是基督教对财富的理解。让我快速回顾一下上周的内容，很多人可能不在这里，我们都可以复习一下。资本主义本身说，你的钱是你自己的，你可以随心所欲地使用它。共产主义或社会主义说，当然我在简化，你赚的钱是人民的，你必须根据社区的需要使用它。而基督徒说，你赚的钱是上帝的，你必须按照他的指示使用它。这是三个非常不同的系统。资本主义总是有一个问题，社会不公的问题。你如何真正给人们足够强大的动机让他们慷慨？而共产主义有一个类似的问题，只是一个动机问题。共产主义的问题是剥夺了人们的所有权，然后他们缺乏生产的动力。而且我认为，正如我们在过去几天和几周中看到的，他们缺乏拥有权带来的人的尊严。人类需要拥有一个属于他们的世界的一部分来照顾。但基督教说，你拥有的财富，你享受它，它是你的，你作为受托人来照顾它，但你必须按照你的主人指示慷慨地给予，那就是上帝，他指示你将其给予福音的工作，给予穷人和有需要的基督徒。结果，你可以说，如果那笔钱是你的，而你不慷慨，你就是吝啬。但如果那笔钱是别人的，而你不按照主人的指示慷慨地给予，那就是抢劫，那就是挪用。这就是我们可以说，一个小偷不再是小偷，当他慷慨的时候。那就是他停止成为小偷的时候，当他激进地慷慨的时候。现在，为什么要再花一周时间呢？因为你知道，圣经充满了这种教导，这非常非常非常困难。很多人说，为什么你不回去再讲讲性，我会的。然而，坦率地说，圣经关于金钱的内容比关于性的内容要多。事实上，整个路加福音几乎都是关于金钱的。我们今天要谈论的事情是一个非常重要的原则，我们在这里看到的，它贯穿整个圣经，那就是，你对待财富和财产的态度不是一个偶然的或边缘的或可选的问题。它是信仰的本质，它是成为基督徒的核心。它不像是，我可以成为基督徒，然后我对待我的财富和财产的方式是我将来会处理的事情。这个段落告诉我们，圣经告诉我们，你对待财富和财产的态度是信仰的本质，它是成为基督徒的核心。最近我和一个朋友谈话，我的一个英国朋友打电话给我，他说，为我祈祷。他一周前打电话给我。他说，我要去罗马尼亚。我说，为什么？他说，我们在英国与罗马尼亚的基督徒有很多联系，当然，罗马尼亚一直是一个封闭的国家，基督徒一直受到迫害，现在大门打开了，我们要去拜访我们的朋友。我们要带罗马尼亚的圣经，因为边界开放了。但为我们祈祷。我们想鼓励他们，但特别为此祈祷，这是他告诉我的。在所有的东欧国家中，教会在最受迫害的地方最有活力。罗马尼亚是所有东欧教会中最有活力的，因为它受到的迫害最严重。祈祷现在那里的自由不会让它在属灵上流失。你知道，你可以轻描淡写地说，这是他们和我们的区别。这就是为什么他们如此有活力，因为受到迫害。这是一个错误，这是一个肤浅的分析。区别在于物质主义。是的，迫害，但迫害使得他们和我们的区别在于物质主义。那些教会没有建筑物，那些教会几乎没有财产，他们分享他们所拥有的，他们就像早期的教会。早期的教会让罗马人惊讶，记得，因为他们在文化中的两个方面脱颖而出。第一，他们的性纯洁，第二，他们的财务慷慨。他们在性方面是纯洁的，但他们在金钱方面是慷慨的。他们把钱到处给。世界感到惊讶。事实上，几个月前我读到这个，但大多数人当时不在这里。你知道，一个早期的罗马皇帝，一个叫朱利安的人，拼命想要消灭基督徒。他生活在公元三世纪，基督徒不断增加，他们接管了一切。有一次，朱利安给他的一个异教祭司朋友写了一封非常非常不满的信。在信中他说，我不知道该怎么办，基督徒在增加。你知道他们为什么在增加吗？他说？这是他说的。罗马为这些基督徒的迷信进步做出了贡献，因为他们对陌生人的慈善。那些不敬虔的加利利人不仅为自己的穷人提供，还为我们的穷人提供。这不是很惊人吗？这里有一个罗马皇帝试图找出基督教为什么像野火一样传播的原因？是什么赋予了它的动力？当然，朱利安不是基督徒，他无法理解一切，但他看到了罗马世界其他人看到的东西。是什么赋予了它吸引力的力量，那是什么？激进的慷慨。这些，你知道，犹太人照顾犹太穷人，希腊人照顾希腊穷人，罗马人照顾罗马穷人，但这些基督徒在这方面是慷慨的。我是说，他们把他们的慷慨撒在每个人身上，这是闻所未闻的。不仅如此，这是极具吸引力的。现在，你为什么认为，在许多方面，教会在受迫害的地方传播？主要是因为基督徒对彼此和周围的人是激进的慷慨。他们脱颖而出。我们做得怎么样？我们做得怎么样？我们脱颖而出吗？世界在惊叹吗？看，这段我们读的经文很长，很复杂，我只想指出这段经文沿着我们已经说的方向教导的三个重要事情。这段经文说，你可以辨别真正的信心的方法是它不可避免地导致激进的慷慨。事实上，这段经文说，真正的信心，不是名义上的信心，不仅仅是基督教的声明或宣言，不仅仅是基督教的情感体验，而是真正的信心有三个特征。它是激进的慷慨，它是激进的恩典，它是激进的实用。这三件事。现在，让我们看看它们。大多数人通常会在你的纸上写下这三件事的要点，但它们不在那里。你必须听。激进的慷慨，激进的恩典，激进的实用。非常快，第一，激进的慷慨。我在看这些经文。要像那些将要被给予自由的律法审判的人一样说话和行动，因为对没有怜悯的人将会有无怜悯的审判。但怜悯胜过审判。然后在第14节继续说，我的弟兄们，如果一个人声称有信心却没有行为，那有什么好处呢？你怎么知道救赎信心和仅仅是情感或口头服务之间的区别？答案是激进的慷慨。它说，在审判日，我们可以辨别出真正信心的人是通过他们的怜悯。对没有怜悯的人将会有无怜悯的审判。现在，怜悯这个词在这里很有趣。在新约中，怜悯可以有一个更广泛和一个更具体的意义。它可以有一个更广泛的意义和一个专业化的意义。在广义上，怜悯就是我们使用它的方式。它意味着看到某人并只是爱他们并给予他们帮助。爱他们，那就是怜悯。但在圣经中的具体意义是帮助某人解决他们的经济、身体、实际需要。例如，在马太福音18章，有一个关于一个国王的仆人欠他一万他连得的故事，他免除了他的债务。他抹去了他的经济债务，最后他对仆人非常生气。我们现在不会进入这个比喻，但他说，仆人，你不应该像我对你一样对你的同伴仆人有怜悯吗？经济上的帮助就是怜悯。当盲人，你知道，当耶稣经过时，盲人会呼喊，人子啊，怜悯我。他在做什么？他只是请求罪的赦免吗？不。他在用怜悯这个词的具体方式。我有一个身体问题。我有一个实际问题。我是盲人。对我的身体做点什么。对我的身体痛苦做点什么。最重要的地方是在好撒玛利亚人的比喻中。你记得它。撒玛利亚人在路上发现一个人，他把他扶起来，给他交通工具，给他医疗护理，给他经济补贴，整夜照顾他的伤口。实际工作，嗯？社会工作。最后，耶稣说，那就是有怜悯的人。怜悯这个词在圣经中常常具有经济、身体帮助的具体意义。现在，在上下文中，怜悯这个词在第12、13节中是什么意思？这很清楚。在雅各书第1章的结尾，雅各说，真正的宗教，神我们的父接受的纯洁无瑕的宗教是照顾孤儿和寡妇的痛苦。然后在第2章，我们在第6节中读到，它说，让我们尊重穷人。在我们读到的第15节中，它说，如果你有信心却没有行为，那有什么好处呢？然后给出了我们正在谈论的怜悯的例子。如果你看到某人没有基本的生活必需品，而你不处理他们的需要，如果你不喂养他们，如果他们饿了，那有什么好处呢？这很清楚。怜悯将没有审判。对没有怜悯的人将会有无怜悯的审判，但怜悯胜过审判。这只是说，在审判日，你的怜悯将显示你的信心是否真实。如果有怜悯从那信心中产生，那表明你的信心是真实的，你将不会被审判。但如果没有怜悯，那表明你的信心不真实，你将会被审判。这并不教导上帝因我们的慷慨而拯救我们。它教导说，如果我们相信并因信仰耶稣而得救，恩典和怜悯，那么任何真正的信仰中都会有恩典和怜悯成长。事实上，雅各在这里，听着，雅各告诉我们很多关于信心的事情。有些人非常关心。他们发现信心是一个非常神秘的东西。这本书，这一章可以告诉你很多关于信心的事情。让我给你几个指示。保罗说我们凭信心行走，而不是凭眼见。保罗从未说过我们凭信心行走，而不是凭理性。保罗从未说过我们凭信心行走，而不是凭思考，因为信心和理性，信心和思考并不对立。信心和眼见是对立的，因为信心是被真理控制的。我们都追求成功、真爱或完美的生活，这些好东西很容易成为终极的东西。当我们把信心放在它们上面时，深知它们无法满足我们最深的渴望。真相是，我们把好的东西变成了次等的神，无法给我们真正需要的东西。在他的书《假神：金钱、性与权力的空虚承诺和唯一重要的希望》中，蒂姆·凯勒向我们展示了如何正确理解圣经揭示社会理想和我们内心的真相，并向我们展示只有一位上帝能完全满足我们的欲望。本月，我们将赠送您《假神》作为感谢您帮助生命中的福音与世界各地的人们分享基督之爱的礼物。您可以在gospelandlife.com/give请求您的副本。那就是gospelandlife.com/give。现在请听凯勒博士今天教学的其余部分。让我给你几个例子。让我想几个例子。不，这里有一个。你知道，事情要分先后。你需要做手术。这是一件可怕的事情。所以你开始打听谁是好外科医生，有人对你说，我认识一个做这种手术的女医生，她是个了不起的外科医生。所以你开始调查这位外科医生，你和她做过手术的其他人交谈。让我们假设为了我们的例子，你能够和其他外科医生交谈，了解他们的看法。你甚至能够以某种方式找到医疗记录，了解这位女士的表现。你发现，每个人都说她是最好的。她是最好的。她从未失去过一个病人。她从未有过一次不成功的手术。证据是压倒性的。你说，太好了。所以你报名了，在手术当天，你退缩了。你开始到达那里，你开始，你闻到消毒剂的味道。你走进医院，也许你看到一些外科工具躺在周围。你看到一些血淋淋的手套躺在周围，你惊慌失措，你说，我不能这样做。发生了什么？你失去了对她的信心。为什么？因为你得到了新的信息吗？因为你被理性说服了吗？不。因为你凭眼见行事。你被你所看到的控制。你被外表控制。你被感觉控制，而不是你知道的真相。你会凭信心行走还是凭眼见行走？你会进去做吗？因为你必须对自己说，看，我需要它。这是最合适的人。你会凭信心行走还是凭眼见行走？我再给你一个例子。单身女性可以认同这一点，但我们都可以理解。有个帅哥约你出去。这太好了。你很兴奋。但你的一个朋友说，现在听着，让我告诉你一些事情。他是个好人，一个很棒的人，但要小心。如果你告诉他任何非常亲密或秘密的事情，他是个大嘴巴。整个城市都会知道。他总是喜欢谈论个人的事情，你会感到非常亲密，但然后他告诉别人，所以要小心。他是个好人。你会玩得很开心。要小心。所以这个朋友告诉你。然后另一个朋友告诉你同样的事情。然后第三个朋友告诉你同样的事情，你开始说，你知道吗？这一定有点道理。我最好真的小心。然后你出去。哇，他真帅。哇，这个地方真不错。哇，食物真好。他开始问你更多，好吧，告诉我更多关于你自己的事情。现在，你会凭信心行走还是凭眼见行走？你开始失去对你知道的真相的信心，因为所有那些警告开始逐渐消退，你知道，因为你没有那些人就在你身边。你没有听到他们的声音在你耳边。你看到他的脸，你知道，你在那里。你会凭信心行走还是凭眼见行走？当你失去信心时，这并不意味着你停止了，是的，这并不意味着你开始思考。你失去信心是因为你停止思考。我可以继续。另一个很好的例子是你需要一个，这会很短，你需要一个侦探。有人说这是最好的侦探，他从不失败，他总是得到。所以你打电话给那个人，他来见你，是科伦坡。你知道，他一只眼睛失明，穿得像个邋遢鬼。当他来见你时，你知道，他把车倒进了电话杆，他出来说，我很抱歉，你看。然后他上来说，我能为你做什么？你坐在那里。你会凭信心行走还是凭眼见行走？事实上，你知道，整个科伦坡系列是基于那些凭眼见行走而不是凭信心行走的人。他们可能听说这是一个纽约，这是一个凶杀侦探，一个好的，但他表现得像个傻瓜，你看，总是发生什么，科伦坡系列的整个想法是罪犯开始说，拜托，看看这个家伙，看看他的外表，看到吗？我所看到的告诉我这个家伙是无能的。现在，我亲爱的朋友们，当耶稣谈论信心时，他总是说信心不是思考的对立面。怀疑是思考的缺失。例如，他在马太福音6章中谈论财产。他在马太福音6章中说，不要为你将吃什么、喝什么或你的身体或你将穿什么而担忧。他说，不要为这些事情担忧。想想田野的百合花。上帝照顾它们。想想空中的鸟。上帝照顾它们。他不会照顾你吗，小信的人？外邦人追求这些东西，物质财产，但不是你，小信的人。你看他在说什么吗？如果你想有信心，你必须考虑，这意味着思考，考虑田野的百合花，考虑空中的鸟，与自己争论，思考。邪教对信心有不同的看法。邪教说，相信，不要思考。他们说，有信心，不要思考，不要问问题。不要坐下来思考这些事情。这与耶稣所说的信心正好相反。他说，如果你想有信心，你必须思考。怀疑是思考的缺失。耶稣在路加福音8章中，耶稣在风暴中睡着了，门徒们看到风暴，他们看到波浪，他们说，哦，我的天，我们要灭亡了。耶稣基督醒来，他看着他们说，你们的信心在哪里？他没有说你们需要更多的信心。他说，你们的信心在哪里？把它拿出来。它应该在这里。你们看到我让人复活。你们看到我承诺带你们去这个地方和那个地方。你们看到这些事情。你们知道我能做什么。你们知道我是谁。然而，当我刚刚离开视线时，你们看着波浪，你们看着波浪。所以你们害怕。他没有说你们需要更多的信心。他没有表现得像信心是一个神秘的东西，必须被唤起。有些人有，有些人没有。他说，你们知道你们应该做什么。你们的信心在哪里？把它拿出来。耶稣特别，特别地将这一点应用于财产。他说，如果你担心财产，如果你被金钱和你吃什么、喝什么所困扰，你就表明你并没有真正了解你没有被圣经所说的上帝父亲所控制，上帝父亲拥有一切。上帝父亲会照顾你。他给田野的草穿上衣服。他照顾空中的鸟。雅各在这里说的，耶稣在马太福音中说的很简单，对可见事物的奴役质疑我们对不可见事物的信心。对可见事物的奴役质疑我们对不可见事物的信心。如果你知道有一个上帝在照顾你，拥有一切，那会完全改变你对其他事物的态度。你看着事物，你说，等等，看，如果你有机会通过立即给予大量时间或金钱来祝福某人，你说，我负担不起。在那一刻你必须决定，我会凭信心行走还是凭眼见行走？我会被我知道的真相控制，一个创造我的上帝，拥有一切，可以给我我所需要的一切，还是我会被报纸上的广告所控制，告诉我我应该处于什么生活水平？你在看波浪还是在看耶稣？你是凭信心行走还是凭眼见行走？你不明白信心的本质是被上帝是谁所控制，这将在你对待你的金钱和财产和事物的态度中显现出来吗？真正的信心是激进的慷慨。这是圣经，这段经文教导的主要内容。其他两件事我可以简短地说，第一。第二，真正的信心是激进的恩典，恩典。你知道在这里它说，我亲爱的弟兄们，上帝不是选择了那些在世人眼中贫穷的人，使他们在信心上富足，并继承祂应许给那些爱祂之人的国度吗？这是一个有趣的经文。一方面，我相信这指出了历史上一直存在的一个事实，那就是，作为一个普遍的规则，在世界历史上，基督教运动最常在穷人中开始，激进的伟大，巨大的，充满活力的基督教运动最常在穷人中开始，这是真的。大多数早期的基督徒是穷人。大多数伟大的复兴发生在穷人中，你知道为什么吗？因为我相信穷人往往能看到游戏。当你在玩这些社会游戏并且赢了，你不会看到这是一个游戏，你也不喜欢有人称之为游戏。当你输了，你喜欢称之为游戏。你知道那是怎么回事。那些在高中时在社交生活中处于劣势的人，很容易因为你在输而说，他们都在玩游戏。如果你在赢，你不会认为这是一个游戏。所有人都是穷人，因为他们是依赖的。经济上的穷人是一个依赖的人。当一个人有足够的钱时，我们称他们为什么？独立富有。如果你有足够的钱，你是独立的。你不需要任何人给你钱。你甚至不需要出去找工作。你是独立富有的，这就是为什么经济贫困是一个依赖的问题。但实际上，每个人在与上帝的关系中，无论你银行里有多少钱，都是属灵上的穷人。你每分钟都依赖上帝的每一次呼吸，有时只有真正的经济穷人才能看到这一点。但圣经教导说，任何人，任何想要属于上帝的人。任何人，任何将要得救的人，任何有真正信心的人，都是心灵贫穷的。马太福音5章3节，心灵贫穷的人有福了，因为天国是他们的。没有心灵的贫穷，你不能进入天国。你听到了吗？你不能。心灵的贫穷是什么意思？嗯，钱包贫穷意味着我破产了，我没有什么可以偿还我的债务。心灵的贫穷是来到上帝面前说，我没有什么好东西可以给你。即使是我最好的行为也不够好。我欠你一切。为了耶稣的缘故拯救我。如果你心灵贫穷，你将在信心上富足。心灵的贫穷意味着这样说，我看到我是完全靠上帝的怜悯和财富得救的。然后当你看一个破碎的人，当你看一个毁了的人，当你看一个搞砸了的人，你知道你在看一面镜子。无论它多么丑陋，你知道你在看一面镜子，因为一个心灵贫穷的人说，无论我看起来多么好，无论我钱包里有多少钱，我知道那就是我在上帝面前的样子，除了耶稣基督。因此，它使你对周围搞砸的人充满恩典，绝对充满恩典。让我这样说。让我向你展示它如何改变你。有时已婚的人会做一件非常危险的事情。已婚的人经常会对彼此说，你爱我吗？另一个人说，当然我爱你，这就是你必须说的。当然我爱你。但然后第一个人可能会说一些非常非常危险的话。他们说，为什么你爱我？现在当这种情况发生时，你知道，一切都在悬崖边缘。有一个方法可以走。那种方法是这样的。嗯，我爱你的原因是因为你为我服务。因为你是一个非常好的人。你从不发火。你从不失去冷静。你从不似乎生气。你从不沮丧。这会让另一个人感觉很好吗？另一个人说，哦，我的天，什么压力，多么可怕。你知道，我开始感到被这种爱束缚。你想听到的是这样的。我爱你，因为我爱你。没有什么能超越我的爱。我的爱没有其他原因，除了它本身。我的爱是它自己的理由。然后你被解放了。这是每个人都需要知道的那种爱。这是上帝给你的那种爱。上帝来到你面前说，我给你我的怜悯和爱，不是因为你很好，因为我爱你。这解放了。原因是因为你能够这样说。你能够这样说。你感到富有，当你意识到你不是因为你的好行为而得救，而是因为他的怜悯。你这样说。你说，星星可能会从天上掉下来，但他对我的爱将会屹立。它将会胜利。我有骄傲。我有问题。它将会胜利。我不是因为我好而被爱。我会因为被爱而变好。我的骄傲，我的坏习惯，我的罪将会在他胜利的爱面前倒下。因为他爱我。因为他爱我。因为他爱我。任何抓住这一点的人都会对周围的人充满恩典。绝对充满恩典。绝对。最后一件事。真正的信心是激进的实用。这是我可以鼓励你的方式。就在最后它说，在第15和16节中，它说，如果你看到某人没有日常食物和衣服，而你说，去吧，我祝你安好，如果你只说话而不做任何事情，那有什么好处呢？它说，信心本身如果没有行动伴随，就是死的。我能告诉你的最后一件事是这样的。你们中有些人坐在这里说，好吧，我听到我应该感受到的东西。你说，我应该因为上帝的恩典而感到慷慨。我应该因为我信任拥有一切的那一位而感到自信。我应该感到那样，但我没有。你可以诚实地告诉我。我没有那种感觉。我有很多内心的动荡，但我没有那种慷慨的感觉。让人进入我的空间对我来说并不容易。我意识到雅各说的是什么，但我没有那种感觉。没关系。为什么？因为真正的爱，真正的基督教爱，从来不是情感，而是行动。恕我直言，你认为当耶稣在十字架上，以历史上最大的爱行为给予自己时，你认为他对我们充满了温暖的感觉吗？恕我直言，你认为他在说，哦，我对这些把钉子和荆棘和长矛插入我的人有如此美好的温暖感觉吗？你认为他的心中有任何温暖的感觉吗？没有。但他爱我们。他给予。如果有人在这里说，你知道，我看到我应该感受到的东西，但我没有，我看到雅各说的是真的，我希望是那样，我希望，你感到沮丧，不要害怕。你的沮丧是上帝在你心中工作的标志。你想要那样的愿望是上帝在你心中工作的标志。你的沮丧是你不应该沮丧的证据。因为这是恩典的开始。这是恩典的开始。那么你应该做什么呢？不要担心你必须拥有所有这些不可思议的信心和爱。只需环顾四周。你应该给予多少？你知道，上周我们谈到了十一奉献。不要让那打扰你一分钟。你应该给予多少？更多。几乎每一个人。更多。就从那开始。不要担心应该是多少。就从更多开始。并开始意识到你自私的方式，你看广告并凭眼见行走而不是凭信心。开始寻找需求。有很多机会。我最后要说的，如果这里有任何人从未真正掌握心灵的贫穷，你不能进入天国。在你能对别人富有之前，在你能对别人富有之前，你必须对上帝贫穷。这意味着今天早上，我们将在这里祈祷，这意味着今天早上你可能需要对上帝说这样的话，主啊，我现在说我一直很穷，但直到现在我从未在心灵上贫穷。我从未到达这样的地步，我可以对你说，主啊，我没有什么可以偿还我的债务。因此，我请求你仅仅因为耶稣基督为我所做的而拯救我。当你心灵贫穷时，你就可以开始在信心上富足。只有当你心灵贫穷时，你才能开始说，他爱我，因为他爱我，并开始感到富有，并说星星可能会从天上掉下来。我的，我从上帝那里得到的爱将会屹立。没有什么能夺走它。你不知道他选择那些贫穷的人在信心上富足吗？让我们祈祷。感谢您收听蒂姆·凯勒在生命中的福音播客。如果您希望看到更多人受到福音中心的教导和资源的鼓励，我们邀请您考虑成为生命中的福音月度合作伙伴。您的月度合作伙伴关系帮助我们计划和管理我们的资源，全年最有效地接触世界各地的人们，分享基督之爱的生命力量。作为对您月度支持的小小感谢，我们将邮寄给您每期新的生命中的福音季刊的实体副本，您可以享受并与他人分享。要了解更多信息，请访问gospelandlife.com/partner。再次感谢您收听。我们下次再见。
